They are free and open-source with multiple backups and added staging areas.
GIT provides users to work with both online and offline. Commit operations are possible even if offline. GIT repository plays a vital role which is a large hash table.
GIT has the last commit (undo operations) and revert options for unnecessary changes.
It has a good feature called Restore delete a commit, which is essential in larger projects.
They have good security protection against the alteration of files and maintains the authentic history of source files. In git, any revision is given a 40-bit key for all the repositories copies.
GIT has better flexibility by supporting non-linear development workflows for both large and smaller projects. They read data directly from the local.
GIT has integrity (means they are check-summed) with SHA-1 inside and distributed development (changes are copied from one repository to the other).
They make use of a pack file that stores a large number of compressed object files in a single file. In Git, we can easily work with our own workflow (feature-based workflow).
They have good compatibility with protocols like HTTP, FTP, rsync to publish the repositories and have portable control systems.
The basic characteristics include they support whole package versions. For remote connectivity, they use HTTP for read-only access. Branches are light -weighted.
Applications of GIT
Given below are the applications of GIT:

GIT in product management – they give up more frequent customer feedback and updates.
It can be used as a graphical application.
Government Agencies use GITHUB to share and collaborate processes (They can add their organizations and create pull request).
It helps in building real-time web applications and is popularly used in Android applications as well as many commercial organizations. They increase the team’s productivity with continuous integration and developments.
GIT can be used in various Operating systems like Fedora, Windows, Red Hat, and other Linux systems using GIT commands.
They are used to develop core Linux kernel.
Used in many open source projects like Ruby on Rails, Perl, the Linux Kernel.
